hello I'm Stephanie Edwards and as an
animal lover I'm here today to tell you
about my favorite humane organization
Pet orphans of Southern California many
years ago Diane scripts and Virginia
Haley rescued a puppy about to be buried
in the construction of the 405 freeway
founded in nineteen seventy three over
25,000 dogs and cats have now come
through the doors of pet orphans into a
brighter future and a second chance at
life
that second chance begins at Pet orphans
in Van Nuys where the dogs and cats are
cared for while they await placement in
permanent loving homes it's important
that we try to make the proper match
with the appropriate and responsible
families or individuals we want to make
sure that they have a lifetime
commitment to this animal there's no
shortage of play time for our canines
here and they get a lot of time in the
yard for puppies we have a special
program we call k9 kindergarten where
right from the start we take the puppies
into an environment where they're
exposed to a lot of different stimuli so
that they can be properly trained and
more adoptable and hopefully then more
place abul and will stay in their homes
forever now the pups at Pet orphans
aren't the only ones having a good romp
at the cattery you'll meet some of the
most affectionate and playful felines in
living quarters that are kept
disinfected and clean as can be for
their health I would like to introduce
you to my friend Clark one of our feline
orphans here and as you can see he
certainly defies the stereotype that
cats are unaffectionate
Ellis Williams kennel manager along with
her staff maintains the entire facility
on a 24-hour basis she lives on the
premises of course in the middle of the
night if I hear you know little yelps or
wines or whatever I do have to get up
quickly and I have had to set my alarm
for certain times of the night of course
to give special medications and fluids
to animals that need it we've already
seen in what wonderful ways pet orphans
helps and saves animals each week one of
our veterinarians visits pet orphans all
animals get a thorough workup so by the
time they are released to their
potential new owners they get the best
medical start for their happy new life
although pet orphans has assisted
thousands of animals there are countless
more needing help so they launched a
humane education program in our city
schools the goal is to address
overpopulation and to promote humane
treatment of animals to the younger
generation well first of all I'd like to
introduce one of the stars of our
program this is Sebastian he helps us go
into the classrooms with the younger
kids and helps teach them how to be safe
around dogs we go into around a thousand
classrooms every year one of the most
important things we like to stress as a
lifetime commitment to the animal in
order to do this people need to become
educated first about how to choose the
right animal for their lifestyle we try
to explain to people how teaching a dog
manners and exposing them to all
different sights and sounds and
situations results in a well socialized
dog which ultimately makes the dog so
much more likely to stay in the home
with the family and besides being
important trainings a lot of fun it's a
great way to build your relationship
with your dog so Meredith and I are
gonna teach you about being safe around
animals but especially dogs yes you may
kenny sniffing you have two ponytails
okay he's ready yeah oh yeah my favorite
spot oh I've been loving that okay so
now I decides he wants to join his bone
again so he's chewing on it he's putting
it down he's taking a little break would
it be okay for Roberto to touch him now
oh I will always be kind and gentle to
all animals and treat my pets like a
member of my family can you do that give
yourselves a big hand good job with your
support Pet orphans hopes to expand this
outreach developing a prototype for the
entire nation
it's hard enough to raise money to care
for the animals at the kennel so why did
Diane scripts founder and president of
pet orphans come up with the idea of
helping the community with emergency
funds for their pets here's a perfect
example that happened recently a woman
called us a short while ago Willie blue
guy was just absolutely a disaster turn
apart so she gave us a call begging us
to help to save the dog's life
fortunately at that time we were able to
do so we get many calls like this every
day every week because of the Good
Samaritan program we have been able to
help the people that need the help so
badly to save their animals lives the
other aspect of the Good Samaritan
program is our spay and neuter outreach
because there are so many people that
need to spay and neuter their pets and
aren't able to pay for it so we will
help do that too when we bring in our
new group of animals our friend Rhonda
campbell comes to our kennel and she
will clean up the darts most of them are
in terrible condition they've all got
fleas and their matted and they're all
in pain they're miserable poor little
things and she comes and she grooms them
and treats them she's a trained nurse so
she is just wonderful with these animals
this is able he had been attacked by
another dog and when he came in he was
just terribly matted and filthy full of
foxtails and burrs and so I cleaned a
mop in the process I found more wounds
on his body which we were able to clean
up I'm sure he got the best night's
sleep that he'd had in a long time after
he was groomed once the dogs are bathed
and groomed they just feel so much
better and looks
much better and are much more adoptable
hi cutie I think the most unique thing
about pet orphans and staff and the
volunteers is the way we approach our
animals and the way we feel about pet
orphans we don't look at it as a kennel
but as a home away from home until our
animals are adopted and go home again
Pet orphans cannot continue to save
these animals without you so on behalf
of the thousands who've already been
saved and the many more who need us
please come down to adopt a four-footed
friend or give us what you can let's
give them a second chance
you